restapp
=======

Sample app implementing a REST API with Java Play.

# Purpose

This application shows how to implement a very basic REST API using Java Paly. The API is used to manage a single type of objects: Person. An instance of a Person keeps track of the following bits of information:

- Id – a number that uniquely identifies a Person object instance within your app. This number is most frequently auto generated by your persistence server, whether it is a SQL-based database,  a NoSQL alternative, or your own backend server.
- firstName – a string representing the first name of the Person.
- lastName – a string representing the last name of the Person.
- age – an integer representing the age of the Person.

Our REST API is going to enable us to : a) create new instances of Person, b) get the data for a Person instance, c) update the information for a Person instance, and d) delete a Person instance. All these operations exchange Person object instances between client and server components as Java Script Object Notation (JSON) strings.  Operations b, c, and d will use the personId as the attribute to find the right Person instance. 

A complete tutorial on how to the application works can be found at:

http://manuelrodriguez.io/java-play-simple-rest-api-part-i/

#Requirements
To complete these code sample you will need to install the following tools:

- Java SDK – a working SDK for Java. Current version is Java 8.
- Play Framework – a working version of Play 2.0.
- Jackson Library – this is a library to convert Java objects into the JSON strings. (Already in the lib directory of the project)
- Eclipse IDE (optional) – a working version of the Eclipse IDE to aid in code writing and syntax checks.

#Set up (terminal based)

1. Clone this repository 
2. Move to the restapp directory
3. Run from the terminal as: ./activator run

#Set up (Eclipse)
## Cloning from terminal
1. Clone this repositoru
2. Move to the restapp directory
3. Set up the eclipse project with the command: ./activator eclipse
4. Import the project into Eclipse with the option Import->Existing Projects into Workspace
3. Run form the terminal the as: ./activator run

## Cloning with eGit
1. Use eGit functionality built-in into Eclipse to import the project from the URI. You should see some compilation errors.
2. Open a terminal and move to the restapp directory
3. Set up the eclipse project with the command: ./activator eclipse
This step shall fix the compilation errors
4. Run form the terminal the as: ./activator run


